After you've
submitted your resume
to several job postings,
you'll hopefully get an
opportunity for an interview.
The interview process
usually starts
with a short
pre-screening phone call.
It typically involves having
a 15-minute conversation
with a hiring manager
or recruiter who will
ask you some questions to
make sure that you are who
your resume says you are
and that you meet the minimum
requirements for the job.
Following the pre-screening,
you could be invited to
an in-person interview
either on-site or online.
This could be a panel interview
with a few members of
the team that you
would be working
with or a one-on-one interview.
Let's discuss some
strategies that
can help prepare you
for an interview.
Review the job description and
your resume ahead of time.
Practice speaking
about the experiences
and skills that the
employer is looking for.
Consider practicing this with
a friend by participating
in a mock interview.
Your friend will act as the
interviewer and you will
answer their questions, as
if you're meeting
with the employer.
It can also be helpful to
dress professionally and
feel comfortable
in the clothes you
choose to wear for
the interview.
Before the interview begins,
take a few deep breaths,
and remind yourself of all
the preparation you've done.
If the interview is online
via video conference,
prepare a location
in your home that is
quiet, tidy, and professional.
Also be sure to test your
video and audio settings,
and if necessary, download
the video conference application
specified by the interviewer.
This will help ensure
that you correct
any technical issues
before the interview.
Interviews usually
include two parts:
a background interview and
a technical interview.
The background
interview will likely
include questions
about your education,
work experience,
skills, and abilities.
You might even be asked
some personal questions
unrelated to the job posting.
The interviewer is trying to
get to know you, to determine
if you'll be a good match for
the team and company culture.
At the same time,
you want to ask questions
to help you decide if
the team and company culture
are a good match for you.
The other portion
of the interview
is the technical interview.
This is when the
interviewer will ask you
specific questions
about technical skills
related to the role.
You might be asked,
how you would
respond to a specific situation,
or to explain a
technical concept
that's listed on your resume.
Do your best to answer
these types of questions
confidently and concisely based
on your current knowledge.
It's okay to say that you
don't know the answer to
a question or that
you need a moment
to respond, so you can
think about your answer.
Employers respect honesty.
Just follow up with
an explanation of how you
would figure out the answer,
either by researching it or
collaborating with the team.
Even after you've completed
this certificate program,
you'll still have access
to all of the content.
So before the interview, go
back and review your notes,
the glossary,
and any concepts that you
might need to refresh
your memory on.
This can help you feel prepared
for the questions
you'll be asked.
Remember, you can prepare for
the interview by participating
in a mock interview,
reviewing the job description,
and taking a few deep breaths
before the interview begins.
You've learned a lot in this
course and are ready to move
ahead and find a position
as a security analyst.
Coming up, we'll discuss how
to conduct
pre-interview research.